[MUSIC]
You can also use text functions
to reformat text strings.
There are three main functions with this
purpose, PROPER(), UPPER(), and LOWER().
The PROPER() function takes a text string,
adds input, and
returns properly formatted text,
where the first letter is capitalized and
all other characters in
the word are set to lowercase.
The UPPER() function also takes
a text string and inputs and
returns uppercase formatted text.
Similarly, the LOWER() function
takes a text string as input and
returns lowercase formated text.
These three text functions are useful
to fix capitalization issues
within a data set and
to create consistent records.
Another highly useful text function
is the CONCATENATE() function,
as suggested by the name, it concatenates
strings of a text to create a new,
and larger, text string.
The CONCATENATE() function takes
multiple text strings and inputs, and
returns one single text string.
For example, if we were to
CONCATENATE() Hello and World,
the concatenate function would
return the text string HelloWorld.
Let's try out the formatting function, and
the CONCATENATE() function
we just discussed.
In our first exercise, we have been given
the data set with a list of cities and
their respective countries.
We noticed that the countries
have been properly capitalized,
however the cities are all in uppercase.
So we're going to start by
using the PROPER() function to
reformat the text in column B.
In order to do this, we type =PROPER(,
and then we select the city in column B.
If we press Enter,
we can see that this function
returns the city name with only
the first letter capitalized.
Next we want to combine the city and
the country into a single string of text.
So we're going to use the CONCATENATE()
function to accomplish this.
So let's start by typing =CONCATENATE(,
the first text string we
want to use is the city,
which can be found in column B,
but also in column D.
Now, since we went through
all that trouble to
properly format the city names,
we're going to use column D.
Next, we add a text string with a comma,
and a space,
to separate the city and
the country within the text string.
Don't forget to use quotes to let
Excel know that this is a text string.
Last, we're going to select
the country name from column C,
and then close the parenthesis.
Upon pressing Enter, we can see
that this returns a correct string,
so we can copy it down to the rest
of the table, Now it's your
turn to practice text formatting and
CONCATENATE() with exercise 1B,
where you're given
a dataset with first and
last names that need to be formatted and
then concatenated.
[MUSIC]